=head1 The WebApp Framework

WebApp is an application framework for Perl Web server software. 

=head1 Synopsis

    #!/usr/local/perl
    
    use WebApp::Server;
    my $server = WebApp::Server->new();
    
    use WebApp::Request::CGI;
    $server->request_class( 'WebApp::Request::CGI' );
    
    use WebApp::Handler::ScriptHandler;
    WebApp::Handler::ScriptHandler->add_new( $server );
    
    use WebApp::Handler::LoggingHandler;
    WebApp::Handler::LoggingHandler->add_new( $server );
    
    $server->run();

=head1 Classes

The key classes in this framework are:

=over 4

=item WebApp::Server

The application engine. Each WebApp-based program should create, configure, and start a single Server instance.

=item WebApp::Request 

Interface to the request source. Each Request must collect all of the incoming arguments and be able to return the response page to the user. Concrete subclasses: CGI, FastCGI.

=item WebApp::Handler 

Application control classes that provide bundles of server functionality. Each Handler in turn gets to log, modify, or respond to incoming requests. Concrete subclasses: LoggingHandler, FileHandler, ResourceHandler, ...

=item WebApp::Resource 

A persistant application object defined in a file. Concrete subclasses: ScriptedPage, Site, Records, ...

=back

Some important utility packages used by the framework are:

=over 4

=item File::Name, File::SearchPath

Used by Handlers, Resources.

=back

=head1 Caveats and Upcoming Changes

There are no major interface changes anticipated for this framework.

=head1 See Also

L<WebApp::Server>, L<WebApp::Request>, L<WebApp::Handler>, L<WebApp::Resource>

=head2 Change History

  1998-03-05 Remaining .pm file scrapped.
  1998-02-17 Framework overview attached in POD format.
  1998-02-17 Moved WebApp.pm functionality into distinct Server package.
  1997-10-05 Version 4 forked; Evo::request.pm is now WebApp.pm, Handler.pm
  1997-09-24 IntraNetics97 Version 1.00.000
  1997-08-15 Added developer role.
  1997-08-15 Changed admin user regex to be case-insensitive and meta-quoted.
  1997-08-09 Fixed a use of fetchwithcriteria, using fetchandreturn instead.
  1997-08-08 More load_user_info changes.
  1997-08-07 Changes to load_user_info
  1997-08-05 Folded [loaduser] functionality into this module.
  1997-04-12 Moved here from various cgi scripts. -Simon

=head2 Contributors

=over 4

=item Simon

M. Simon Cavalletto (simonm@evolution.com)

=back

=head1 Copyright

Copyright 1996, 1997, 1998 Evolution Online Systems, Inc. 
Contact us at info@evolution.com or through http://www.evolution.com/.

You may use this document for free under the terms of the Artistic License.

The latest version of this and other portions of the EvoScript web application framework is available from http://www.evoscript.com/.

=cut