=head1 Evolution's Perl Modules

This is a top level outline of Evolution's current suite of Perl modules.


=head2 Class 

=over 4

=item Class::NamedFactory

Provides class registration and by-name lookup methods.

Not sure this is a good idea. Basic inline POD. 

=back


=head2 Data

=over 4

=item Data::DRef

Uses delimited keys to get and set values in nested structures.

Stable. Should move keysof to here and tidy up the function names. Decent inline POD.

=item Data::Collection

Provides nested datastructure functions based on DRef.

Stable. See note above. Decent inline POD.

=item Data::Sorting

Provides utility functions for sorting data structures.

Needs to be refactored to support locales, reverse ordering. Basic inline POD.

=item Data::Criteria

Provides a class framework for record selection rules.

Soon to be obsolete in favor of DBO::Criteria. POD outline only.

=back


=head2 DateTime

=over 4

=item DateTime::Formats

Provides a Text::Format intrface to date and time values.

Stable. No POD, but decent inline comments.

=item DateTime::Date

Object representing a day.

Stable but incomplete. Basic inline POD.

=item DateTime::Time

Object representing a time.

Stable but incomplete. No POD.

=item DateTime::moment, duration, period

Additional temporal objects.

Not working. No POD.

=back


=head2 DBAdaptor, FieldSet, Record, Field

Soon to be obsolete in favor of DBO::Table, DBO::Record, DBO::Record::Persistent, and DBO::Field. 


=head2 DBO

=over 4

=item DBO::Table

Provides an abstract interface class for row storage systems.

Working but not thoroughly tested. Basic inline POD.

Subclasses: DelimitedText, Win32ODBC, MySQL, DBDInformix.

=item DBO::Criteria

Provides a collection of classes modeling selection rules.

Working but not thoroughly tested. POD outline only.

Subclasses: StringEquality, StringInequality,  SubString, CaseInsensitiveSubString, NumericEquality, NumericGreater, NumericLesser, MultiMatch, And, Or.

=item DBO::Record

Generates data bearing object classes by compositing DBO::Fields.

Working, but interface still being revised.

=item DBO::Field

Fields provide an interface for attributes of other objects.

Working, but interface still being revised.

=back


=head2 Devel

=over 4

=item Devel::PreProcessor

Module inlining and other Perl source manipulations.

Stable. Decent inline POD.

=back


=head2 Err

All of these packages should be examined and possibly discarded in favor of 5.004 standard modules, or possibly consolidated into a single package..

=over 4

=item Err::Debug

Provides keyword-based log filtering and output escaping.

Semi-stable. Decent inline POD.

=item Err::Exception

Provides simple exception handling based on eval.

UNSTABLE. No POD.

=item Err::LogFile

Lets you designate a target for error messages

Semi-stable. Decent inline POD.

=item Err::WebLogFormat

Reformats Perl warnings for web server error logs.

Semi-stable. Decent inline POD.

=back


=head2 File

=over 4

=item File::Name

File path objects and related operations.

Mostly stable. Basic inline POD.

=item File::SearchPath

By-name file access across a group of directories.

Subclasses: SearchPathSet and SearchPathProxy

Stable. POD outline only.

=item File::SystemType

Provides information about the local file system.

Stable but a bit questionable. No POD.

=back


=head2 Number

=over 4

=item Number::Bytes

Provides formatting for byte and bit counts.

Stable. Basic inline POD.

=item Number::Currency

Provides currency-appropriate formatting for numbers.

UNSTABLE. POD outline only.

=item Number::Formats

Provide a Text::Format interface for the Number::* routines

Need to resolve Text/String issue, qv. No POD.

=item Number::Roman

Provides functions to convert to and from roman numerals.

Stable. Basic inline POD.

=item Number::Separated

Comma separated integers.

Stable but incomplete; should handle floating point numbers as well. Basic inline POD.

=item Number::Stats

Provides basic math manipulations for groups of numbers.

Stable, but perhaps unnecesary. Basic inline POD.

=item Number::Value

Numeric value objects with access and formatting methods.

Stable, but not used anywhere. No POD.

=item Number::Words

Localizable words for numbers and ordinals.

Stable, but incomplete. Basic inline POD.

=item Number::WorkTime

Minutes as hours and workdays.

Stable, but incomplete. Basic inline POD.

=back


=head2 Script

=over 4

=item Script::Parser

Supports the parsing of text into Script::Elements.

Stable. POD outline only.

=item Script::Element

Is the abstract base class for all EvoScript objects.

Stable. Basic inline POD.

=item Script::Literal

Provides Element classes for literals and escaped literal.

Stable. Basic inline POD.

=item Script::Sequence

Class for elements containing an array of sub-elements.

Stable. POD outline only.

=item Script::Tag

Superclass for square bracketed dynamic tags.

Stable. POD outline only.

=item Script::HTML

Includes standalone and container tags for HTML Elements.

Stable. POD outline only.

=item Script::PoundTag

Square brackets around a pound, method, and args.

Untested. POD outline only.

=back


=head2 Text/String

=over 4

=item Text::Escape

Backslash, quoting, and general escape/unescape functions.

Stable; interface could use some work. Basic inline POD.

=item Text::Excerpt

Truncate strings with elipses.

Stable; interface could use some work. Basic inline POD.

=item Text::Format

Formatting gateway routines for numbers, dates, and such like.

Stable; interface could use some work. Basic inline POD.

=item Text::PropertyList

Turn data structures into NeXT's PropertyList text format -- and back again

Stable; interface could use some work. Basic inline POD.

=item Text::Words

Parse and print words and quoted phrases as simple lists and hashes

=back


=head2 WebApp

=over 4

=item WebApp::Server

Provides a framework for Perl web applications.

Almost stable. Basic inline POD.

=item WebApp::Request

Superclass for HTTP-request interfaces.

Almost stable. Basic inline POD.

Subclasses: CGI, FastCGI, HTTP, Apache.

=item WebApp::Handler

Provides a superclass for bundles of server functionality.

Stable. POD outline only.

Subclasses: FileHandler, ScriptHandler, LoggingHandler, ResourceHandler, SiteHandler, Plugins....

=item WebApp::Resource

Superclass for file-based application objects.

Stable. POD outline only.

Subclasses: ScriptedPage, Config, Site, Records....

=back

=head1  

=head1 Copyright

(c) 1998 Evolution Online Systems
Simon M. Cavalletto <simonm@evolution.com>

=cut
